---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-16T04:42:54.691Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-16T04:42:14.348Z'
title: 'Uttar Pradesh, India'
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-16-uttar-pradesh-india.md
published: true
url: uttar-pradesh-india/index.html
_type: Article

---
My First NID -- Uttar Pradesh, India

"Always ask
God to give you what you deserve, not what you desire because your desires may
be few but you deserve a lot." Behind the wall on which these words were
written, 16-year-old Anthima struggles to lift herself up from the bed, drags
the knees that have been straightened by an operation done by Dr. Mathew
Varghese, until her feet touch on the floor.

"Our goal is
to give back children the dignity they deserve," Dr. Varghese, who has been
treating polio patients for two decades at St. Stephen's Hospital in the Indian
capital of Delhi, told visiting Rotarians from Hong Kong and the U.S. "Nobody
want them, we take care of them." For most of his patients living in rural areas,
"one visit to the hospital means one day's wage is gone," he added. Rotary Club
of Delhi Midtown, which helped coordinated the trip of our six-member team, has
been sponsoring bus services to take polio patients from villages to visit the
hospital.

Anthima's
fists grasp the clutches, forcing so hard that her arms are trembling under the
pink-colored sari. As she walks the first step, she looks up, and smiles.

"It pains me
to see her smile, knowing the agony she's going through," said Ada Cheng,
District Governor Nominee (2007-08) of District 3450 (Hong Kong, Macao and
Mongolia), tears rolling down her eyes. "She isn't whining. She isn't crying.
You'd think a person ought to be complaining when going through such pain, but
she isn't."

Polio, a
crippling and potentially fatal infectious disease, can cause paralysis within
hours, making it the world's biggest cause of disability. If polio isn't
eradicated, an estimated 10 million children will be paralyzed in the next 40
years. The intensified polio eradication effort, launched in February 2007, has
reduced type 1 polio virus -- the more virulent of the two remaining types of
viruses -- by more than 80 percent, and restricted transmissions to parts of
four countries, namely India, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan. India is the
closest to eradicating type 1 polio virus among the four nations.

A
seven-hour road trip embarked in Delhi before dawn brought us to Bareilly. The
city, famous for being the home town of former Miss World Priyanka Chopra, is
located in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, arguably the most
historically entrenched type 1 polio virus reservoir in the world. On the
hellishly hot June 1 Sub-National Immunization Day, we traveled from one booth
to another, giving out oral polio vaccines to children under the age of five.

My hands were
shaking when I squeezed the first drop out of a vaccine bottle, partly because
the baby, held in a local vaccinator's arms, wouldn't stop crying and screaming
and kicking, and more so because I was amazed by the thought that two drops is
all it takes to help prevent these kids from the deadly disease. Once
vaccinated, we marked the child's left little finger using indelible ink marker
pen so as to distinguish them from the ones who have not yet received the
vaccine.

By creating a
festive atmosphere, we tried to mobilize more children to the booth. Each kid
received a souvenir before they left the booth -- a "cap" -- a rubber band
attaching two ends of a moon-shaped cardboard, with the Rotary logo printed on
one side.

It didn't take
long before these "caps" started coming back to us. The kids had invented a
different toy out of it. They flipped the cardboard paper to the opposite side
and came with a pen. "Ma'am, autograph please?" Our work was therefore
occasionally interrupted by requests for signatures, phone numbers, and photos.
  

During the
first hour at an outdoor booth in front of a temple, almost 130 children
received vaccines from our team.   

"You see that
people here are more willing to accept when they see foreigners," said Ann Lee
Hussey, Chairwoman of Polio Survivors & Associates. Hussey was diagnosed
polio in July 1955\. She was 17-month old. In August that year, she said,
vaccines were invented.

"My whole life
is dedicated to polio," she said. Prior to this SNID, Hussey has been on 12
others, seven to India and five to Africa.  

Each
year, two National Immunization Days, known as NIDs, take place in India in
January and February, followed by sub-NIDs. After eight SNIDs in 2007, six are
planned for this year. About 70 million children are immunized on every SNID.

About 60
percent to 70 percent of immunization is done on any NID, typically on a
Sunday, or day one, with the rest completed on days two to six in the form of
house-to-house visits.

We made our
way through the slums in the heat of the mid-morning sun. It was quite an
adventure to pass through filthy alleys and climb stairs that were narrow and
steep, knocking each door in search for kids who had missed out vaccination at
the booths, both intentionally or unintentionally.

A Muslim
grandmother had prohibited her daughter-in-law to bring her two-year-old baby
to get vaccinated, until Ting Lau, Chelsia To and their team of local health
workers visited the house. Despite the language barrier, Lau, a polio survivor
and a specialist in cardiology in Hong Kong, persuaded the grandma by using
body language and herself as an example, eventually helping one more child to
be immunized against the fatal virus.

High
population density, poor hygiene, lack of knowledge, and at times the pressure
to make a living have contributed to the problem of polio for the
under-privileged in India. The misconception among the Muslim population that
polio vaccines could make their children infertile is making immunization even
more challenging.

Dr. Margaret
Chan, Director-General of the World Health Organization, has made polio
eradication the Organization's "top operational priority." Rotary announced the
US$100 Million Challenge, a three-year fundraising effort to match a grant from
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Rotarians around the world also
volunteer their time and travel at their own expenses to immunize children
against polio during national campaigns. 

As our team
was about to make our way out of the Jagapur village, our car was stopped by a
skinny, old man, one hand pounding the front seat window, the other hand
holding a wooden stick as he walked. I hopped out of the car, only to see a
woman holding her 18-month-old baby in her hands, one of which had lost all
fingers. She begged us to help her son get a surgery, saying he had polio
symptoms.

Hussey lifted
the boy's left arm, then let go. The boy's arm dropped. She lifted his left
leg. It fell. The boy looked like he had lost control of half side of his body
muscle, which could be one of the early symptoms of polio.

"People may
say some are suffering because fate brought them here, so they were born in
this place and have no choice," said Kenneth Chow, District Grant Sub-committee
Chairman (2007-08) of District 3450\. "After this trip, I'm more convinced than
ever that we have to step up our efforts to help these people. We can eradicate
polio."    

India reported
this year the lowest incidence ever of type 1 polio for the first five months
of any year: A total of 275 cases, among which five were of type 1 and 270 type
3\. The nation is aiming at eradicating type 1 polio by the end of this year,
and type 3 by 2009\.
![](https://the-grid-user-content.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/914d8d87-ed02-4e0e-b159-96dbad017075.jpg)

"The very
presence of Rotarians here contributes in terms of giving faith to local health
workers because at times they could feel fatigue," a WHO official in India
said. "It shows them that there are people standing by them, giving them
comfort and motivation."